hey everyone Laszlo Montgomery here with
another episode from the bottomless
bucket of interesting topics from
Chinese history juncture today also
known as jeonggi Sol but I also hope to
offer up the bigger picture of what else
was going on as far as piracy in the
South China Sea during this period in
the late 18th early 19th century you
know in our day at least here in the US
the whole notion of piracy pirates has
been so softened up and distorted by
decades of Disney Hollywood and plain
old American mass culture doing its
thing these pirates were nothing like
Johnny Depp's Jack Sparrow character the
brutal truth about pirates certainly
this is the case of the high dolt who
sailed the South China Sea was that they
preyed without mercy on anyone and
everyone who called their home the
coastal areas from Judge yung the
Guangdong provinces all the way down the
coast of Vietnam the local inhabitants
when they saw them coming would just
sprint for the hills these pirates would
murder and degrade people in the worst
possible ways and these weren't people
who had a lot either but that never
stopped Pirates from seizing whatever
little they had that was of any value
they were a scourge in every sense of
the word both the noun and the verb the
stories abound about the ease with which
they would carry out the most despicable
torture on people and engage in the most
heartless cold-blooded murder
like it was nothing so these people were
looking at today you don't have any
sympathy for these Devils or compassion
for them they were mean and heartless
rough people born into hardship always
living by their wits and their
ferociousness as far as our story goes
one of the defining moments in the
history of piracy in the South China Sea
was the Tison rebellion down in Vietnam
that lasted from 1770 to 1802 it was the
aftermath of this historic period in
Vietnam that lifted these Seabourn
Raiders to a whole new level
this Tyson rebellion first broke out in
Benton province south of Da Nang north
of Natron Tyson or West Mountain Shi
Shan and Mandarin it was a village where
these three brothers surnamed when no
surprise there rose up against the
oppressors powerful Nobles also surnamed
when the ladyness tea had degraded over
the years to the extent that they ended
up being controlled by these strong
feudal lords a la eastern jo dynasty the
Emperor was powerless and was controlled
by the strongest clan in this case them
wins no relations to the winds of die
son like many other countries Vietnam
had its own homegrown version of
peasants who suffered from brutal
landlords greedy and corrupt officials
and general negligence from the state
enough hardship had befallen these
peasants in Vietnam where by this day
son rebellion took off and caught fire
quickly that they sewn rebels sought to
give the people a fair shake overthrow
them win oppressors and restore the laid
ina ste this rebellion got way bigger
than anyone thought it would get and as
it expanded there was a dire need on the
rebels part to shore up the ranks and
recruit more fighters to their side this
is where the Pirates came in that die
sonne rebels went to these Chinese
pirate groups and offered them enough
incentive so that they would stop what
they were doing and help them in their
mission south these Chinese pirate fleet
sailed down the Vietnam Coast not far at
all from southern guanxi province and
they joined in the battle and in the
ensuing years beginning in 1792 when the
recruitment began these Pirates evolved
from a wild plundering horde to a very
tight lean organized killing machine
that knew how to hold its own in any
naval encounter on behalf of their Thai
son rebel paymaster's they turned all
their viciousness and effectiveness as
fighters against the Vietnam government
forces fighting the rebels when it all
ended in 1802
the rebels defeat these South China Sea
pirates
quit Vietnam and headed back north to
the guanxi Guangdong coast and used this
new skill set they acquired to up the
ante and their attacks on ships that
wound up caught in their nets they were
no longer just an unorganized gang of
ruffians plundering the unfortunate boat
people and trading junks along the coast
our anti heroin jeonggi saw wasn't born
with that name
she was surname sure the stone character
sure these were the same shares as the
shores who made up one of the four main
pirate groups who sailed the Pearl River
Delta mostly during the Ching the other
three clans were the chums the Maas and
the shoes
yes piracy was a family enterprise and
that business you really had to rely on
your kinfolk
you know anybody who worked in that
industry had little honor probably not
too smart and greedy as hell so when any
piratical enterprise blood was always
thicker than water as it is
physiologically as well sure shanku was
born somewhere around she'd way son boy
as its pronounced in botched cantonese
from this small sliver of guangdong
province in a hundred miles in every
direction came the unsung brave man who
went to mine for gold or build railroads
in America and in so doing they ceded
almost every Chinese American community
between San Francisco and New York City
sure shanku was born in 1775 that put
her right in the middle of the Qianlong
era like a lot of these pirates she came
from Tonka or Dungey ah people I
mentioned these boat dwellers in the
history of Hong Kong series Tonka isn't
a polite word anymore and they're
usually referred to as the shui Shan
read or people who live on the water
like a lot of others and sure sheng gu's
situation she ended up working in a
brothel and there at her place of
employment right around the turn of the
century she was captured by pirates and
as her good fortune would have it the
leader of this gang of pirates
wanted her for himself he was none other
than the living legend Cheung Yee Cheung
Yee was the descendant of a great
seafaring clan that had its roots
stretching back to the beginning of the
Ching in 1644 as one of the legends goes
Cheung Yee had given specific orders to
his men to capture this one particular
prostitute sure she uncle talked about a
great team after they married in 1801
sure shanku not only became chummy's
wife but a complete soul mate and
partner as well they really were
partners in crime Chun he knew was sure
shanku at his side he could achieve his
objective of uniting all the pirate
fleets that sailed the Pearl River Delta
under his leadership this pirate couple
caught the tail end of the tae-sun
rebellion and theirs were among the
newly fortified and powerful pirate
fleets that returned to China after the
rebellion ended in 1802 Cheung Yee must
have really liked her she onku because
the deal he made gave her a full
partnership in his enterprise after that
sure shanku became known as Cheung Yee
saw to everyone that means Chun Yi's
wife over the years they worked together
and built up the red flag fleet main
pirate fleets that sailed these waters
were all organized into different
banners each one identified by a caller
Chun easily flew the red banner and were
thus known as the red flag fleet or Hong
Ki bum like Chinggis Khaan Cheung Yee
was a great consensus builder he had
emerged at the conclusion of the Tassone
rebellion as the most powerful pirate
captain and he was very successful in
establishing this coalition and showing
other rival pirate groups that there was
merit in having this kind of mutual
cooperation and that there was both
safety and fortune and numbers this
coalition formed the centerpiece of this
decade long period when the Pirates
acted with impunity in the South China
Sea along the way Cheung Yee kidnapped a
young 15 year old kid from similar
circumstance
as chummy saw his name was jumbo but
he's maybe better known as junk boats I
or Chung Banzai he's important because
Cheung Yee and Chung Esau adopted him
and he grew up amongst the red flag
fleet by 1804 this Hong Qigong
was by all accounts a major force to
reckon with they operated mainly around
the Pearl River Delta as well as along
the South China coast a place at this
time in history chalk filled with
foreign and domestic traders and
smugglers carrying all kinds of valuable
cargo East India Company ships were
constantly facing off against these guys
the details are sketchy but the great
pirate jung-ae died in a huge storm on
November 16th 1807 now you'd think with
this sudden death that would have
spelled the end of his widow jeonggi
soul but this is really where her legend
starts after taking stock of her
situation
jeonggi saw began to immediately use her
own prestige and position as Johnny's
widow to assume his mantle in addition
to gaining support from Johnny's closest
comrades and key trusted piratical
partners
jeonggi saw also made an alliance with
her adopted son junk boats I although
this episode concerns the life of Johnny
saw her adopted son John bowtie is
probably the most famous of all these
Pirates from this Golden Age during the
first decade of the 19th century he may
have been an adopted son but that didn't
prevent them from becoming lovers and
this led to marriage and a son that
followed not long afterwards junk boats
I was respected and feared enough among
the seven banners of pirate fleets
whereby both he and Johnny saw were able
to weather the death of jeonggi a code
of sorts was instituted that instilled a
great amount of discipline amongst these
pirates we know of this mainly through
two primary sources that made it down to
our day the first was Richard glass
pools a brief narrative of my captivity
and treatment amongst the ladrones glass
pool was a British II
sindhya company officer aboard a vessel
the Marquess of Eli he and his crew of
seven were captured on September 21st
1809 it didn't get let go until December
7th of that year he wrote about his
experience but referred to jeonggi sow
in the masculine so I'm not sure how
good this source is from an academic
point of view the other primary source
was Charles Newman's translation of a
book written in Chinese called the
Pirates who infested the South China Sea
from 1807 to 1810 Jing - G in its
original Mandarin that was published in
1831 Newman's book is considered the
first that introduced these China Coast
pirates to the west these two books
offer up an account of the exploits of
these pirates including John Esau
Glasspool managed to survive a very
frightful three-month ordeal he
witnessed all kinds of the most brutal
killing torture and depravity towards
these coastal dwellers and particularly
to captured women regarding the code
that Johnny saw and junk boats I
instituted let me offer up a taste of
how that worked some of these laws
include the following bullet points if
you disobeyed an order you got your head
chopped off and your body thrown in the
ocean
if you stole anything from the common
plunder before it had been divvied up
again got your head chopped off your
body thrown in the ocean
if you raped anyone without permission
from the leader of your squadron you got
the same decapitation treatment and your
body thrown in the ocean if you had
consensual sex with anyone while on duty
head chopped off body thrown in the
ocean and the woman involved would get
something akin to cement shoes and she
too would get tossed in the ocean if you
looted a town or ship of anything at all
or otherwise harass them when they were
already paying tribute you too had to
suffer the head chop and body thrown
overboard fate if you tried to leave the
organization well you kept your head but
in this case you get your ears chopped
off captured ugly women were to be set
free unharmed captured pretty women
could be divvied up or purchased by
members of the red flag
fleet however if a pirate was awarded or
purchased a pretty woman
he was then considered married to her
and was expected to treat her
accordingly if he didn't well you can
guess what happened to his head and
where his body ended up so it was a lot
like this and many who valued their head
and didn't like the thought of getting
their headless corpse thrown in the
water made sure to walk the line this
code that jeonggi saw when junk boats I
famously wrote didn't just concern
itself with punishment it also laid out
how all the ill-gotten gains were to be
distributed amongst the crew who got
what the code did quite a lot to bring
order to what was probably a an
arbitrary system the people who lived
far inland away from the coastal region
this wasn't their headache the potential
livelihood and riches that the coastal
areas presented to the normal Chinese
was simply too big of a lure fishing
trading shipping too many opportunities
to make a nice income but one of the
downsides
besides typhoons of course was that
people of the coast had to deal with
this pirate situation I think you have
an idea how ferocious these pirates were
this is how it worked down there in the
water is where Johnny saw and the red
flag fleet sailed there was incredible
discipline maintained everyone who knew
better behaved themselves to a certain
extent and if you followed the rules you
were entitled to a piece of the action a
pirate's life wasn't for everyone but
for many it sure beat working an honest
job so anything of value that was seized
from these coastal dwellers ended up
being divvied up according to the rules
then the booty ultimately made its way
to any number of pirate markets that
thrived in certain Seaport towns jump
boats i and chun Esau were a great team
jeonggi sau who was also known as Jung's
shirt or Madame Chung was the brains of
the organization junk boats I was in
charge of the fighting and military
affairs in fact it was Johnny Esau who
took the business one step further after
the death of her husband and expanded
the revenue streams from
simple plundering to extortion
protection and other things like that
hey just another example of the strong
preying on the weak nothing new there
that concept was thousands of years old
another big revenue source involves
selling safe passage to trading and
fishing vessels who sailed in these
pirate-infested waters if you got
boarded and carried the right papers if
you were left alone if you didn't pay
for passage well you know what happened
that's essentially what happened to
Richard Glasspool pretty much by 1808
chun li saw and the associated fleets
were part of her organization owned the
whole south china coast it wasn't just
the fishing and trading vessels that
constantly fell prey to the red flag
fleet by this time that ching dynasty
was calling the red flag fleets and all
who were in alliance with her a clear
and present danger over 60 times
Imperial ships got raided and they were
almost always carrying valuable and
precious cargo or some Mandarin who
could be ransomed the Pirates operated
with impunity and the Ching Navy down
there time and again we get their asses
whipped and their vessels captured this
headache I failed to mention ultimately
rested on the shoulders of the cha-ching
Emperor up in Beijing his reign caught
the main brunt of the pirates that their
most powerful and annoying he you may
recall from previous episodes was the
Qing Emperor who had the good fortune to
die before the start of China century of
humiliation his son the dal Quang
Emperor had the dubious distinction to
be on duty when that sorry period began
the economic losses suffered by the
Imperial Treasury as well as all the
expenses to keep up the pressure against
the Pirates you know using an
insufficient Navy was a great source of
the dynasty's misfortunes during the
cha-ching Emperor's reign from 1796 to
1820 and so it was that the Chinese
authorities called on the British and
the Portuguese to enlist their help in
dealing with Cheung Esau and the 60-year
70,000 pirates who acted on her word
half of which were under her personal
direct command the imperial court or
their representatives cut a deal with
the British at least one vessel and
fifty American volunteers they went to
take on the Pirates got thoroughly
trounced and captured crew was beheaded
that didn't go too well next up were the
Portuguese the Portuguese have been
fighting with South Seas pirates ever
since they first started coming to these
waters ten Emperor's into the Ming
Dynasty in 1513 with Georgie Alvarez
this isn't generally known so I hope you
keep it between us but part of the
reason the Ming Jing Emperor gave Macau
to Portugal in 1557 and it wasn't just
to pen them into a small easily
controllable area to carry out their
trade the Portuguese had always managed
to stand up to the pirates and it was
for this other reason that the China
government let them hang their hat and
Macau part of the deal was that they
also had to do their best to keep the
area around this part of the Pearl River
free of this scourge the final straw
came towards the end of 1809 when Qing
Dynasty naval assets combined with the
British and Portuguese to form a naval
dream team of sorts to finally rub these
pirates out the Portuguese who had the
most firepower in those waters took the
lead role in this operation for too long
they had been dealing on and off with
this pirate scourge they too wanted to
put an end to this once and for all the
Imperial Chinese government believing
the old adage that the enemy of my enemy
is my friend got the Portuguese to put
together a fleet to deal with this
before organizing the operation against
the Pirates a Portuguese vessel sailing
from Tamar to Macao was attacked in
September 1809 and all crew killed and
with that the Portuguese had had enough
they at once organized a punitive
expedition and tracked down junk boat
sized fleet where they engage them in a
nasty barrage gunfire in the Portuguese
forcing the pirates to scatter on
September 15th 1809
Chinese imperial emissaries met with the
Portuguese in Macau and said they were
also gonna go after junk boats aye and
they requested the Portuguese to lend
some ships and firepower Portuguese
agreed and lent six ships with over a
hundred pieces of deadly artillery and
almost a thousand men they came up with
a plan that called for an invasion of
chungee souse home base located on
Lantau Island the red flag fleet had
operations on both lantau and jeong-ja
or Changjo this is the dumbbell shaped
island off the coast of Lantau Lantau
Island of course the largest island that
makes up the Hong Kong SAR and today
home of the Hong Kong Airport Disneyland
and the Bolin monastery
among many other attractions in
residence on Cheung Chau Island you can
find junk boats ice cave and it's a
tourist attraction and local hiking spot
you could actually go inside and crawl
through one of Chiang bullet-sized many
alleged stash houses not for the
claustrophobic as the legend goes he had
loot stashed all over the islands of the
Pearl River Delta Jung Esau had herself
one hell of a spy network and somehow
she got wind to this whole operation
being planned against her so she lept
into action and organized a preemptive
strike against this three-nation Armada
assembling upstream at the north end of
the Delta end of November 1809 she
attacked and surprised them at the
historic city of Holman but in the end
the Pirates were finding the Portuguese
firepower and naval maneuvers too hard
to overcome nonetheless the Portuguese
after inflicting heavy damage on the
Pirates scooted back to Macau to regroup
and attack again this was going to be
the big showdown junk boat's I had moved
his entire fleet of 300 vessels to the
Macao area well desperate times require
desperate measures as Hippocrates and
Erasmus both said once and so the call
went out announcing an imperial amnesty
for
any pirates who surrender to the
government authorities assuming the
crimes you committed weren't too
egregious you'd be handed a pardon
direct from the ching government and a
job offer in the military wasn't so bad
tens of thousands of pirates facing an
uncertain future took the government up
on their offer when it came in 1810 and
after that defeat at the hands of the
portuguese in december 1809 and again as
the year turned eighteen 10gen
bullet-sized allies the Black Flag fleet
after considering their options decided
to take the government up on the offer
and that was a sign to chunk poets I and
Chung II saw that the tide was perhaps
changing the red flag fleet made one
last effort to turn the tide in their
favor but the Portuguese weren't gonna
allow themselves to be beaten and their
firepower was turning out to be too
deadly
considering the circumstances they found
themselves in junk boats I and Chung
Esau had to take a close look at that
amnesty deal they were getting outgunned
and having trouble keeping their fleet
from getting destroyed despite one final
all-or-nothing engagement near hooman
that was it the red flag fleet was
thoroughly trounced and cornered and
after a brave visit from the Portuguese
commander who had been slapping the
Pirates around junk boats I agreed to
back down better to cut his losses and
take the amnesty this idea of paying off
enemies to get them to back down has
been going on since the Han Dynasty
there was nothing wrong with utilizing
the same strategy jeonggi saw one fine
April 18th day in 1810 showed up unarmed
and unannounced at the Governor
General's residence and turned herself
in and began negotiations regarding her
surrender and if you believe the stories
she ended up doing quite well for
herself in return for the full pardon
they gave her she got out of a pirating
business forever over the period of two
days of negotiations the deal she struck
a lot
out her to keep all her lutes which was
probably a lot she was given the
aristocratic title of lady Jung which
I'm sure came in handy every now and
then junk boats I the more famous and
notorious of this duo he was given the
title of lieutenant colonel in the ching
imperial navy and ironically spent the
rest of his short life eradicating
piracy especially in and around Fujian
province like Jung Lee saw junk boats I
cut a sweet deal with the cha-ching
Emperor and he had it nice until his end
came in 1822 there's the story I mean
this whole episode is a story more than
history you know these pirates from the
Golden Age of 1802 to 1810 it's pretty
slim pickins as far as reliable primary
sources yeah we have glass pools and
newman's books but that's hardly enough
so who knows if this ever happened or
not but but whatever the case part of
the deal also called for Jung Esau to
kneel before the Emperor's
representative as thanks to show his
favor with this pardon well she wouldn't
do it so a workaround was thought up
that called for chung Esau to marry junk
boats I before the Emperor's rep and as
part of the ceremony they would bow to
him and that dotted the last I as far as
the final arrangements to the surrender
and that as they say was that from the
two sons she had with Cheung Yee and the
one from Jung boats I jeonggi saw had
several grandchildren and lived to what
was back then the ripe old age of 69
passing in 1844 after Jung boats I died
in 1822 it said that Jung Esau moved
back to Guangzhou and opened an opium
den in a house of prostitution so that's
the legend I guess you could call it of
Jung sure madam or Widow Jung sure
shanku she did an earmark any budget for
a pirate historian who might have
chronicled her milestones so really in
the english-speaking world at least all
we have are the accounts of various
eyewitnesses who were able to offer up a
narrative of what they saw and
experienced
that was better than nothing every see
in the world has seen its share of
pirates they've been around since men
first swallowed their fears and boarded
vessels and took to the sea pretty much
as soon as the age of exploration kicked
into high gear there were always these
piratical opportunists looking for the
easy score Captain Kidd
Blackbeard Black Bart Henry Morgan
Calico Jack and Anne Bonny they were
cold-blooded killers one and all and
they somehow weaseled their way into our
popular culture and of course today we
have Disney's Pirates of the Caribbean
franchise the gift that keeps on giving
you know in part three of Pirates of the
Caribbean at Lands and Cheung sure was
the inspiration behind mistress Ching
and one of my favorites the
multi-talented Joe Young fought as South
Fong the pirate Lord whose character was
inspired by junk boats I and of course I
got to mention Keith and his
oscar-worthy role is Captain Teague yeah
Cheung you saw in junk boats I both
ended up firmly embedded in our popular
culture acting as the inspiration to
characters and video games graphic
novels movies TV serial dramas and his
characters and other artistic media let
me close out by quoting an excerpt from
Richard glass pools book here he
describes a pirate raid on a coastal
village typical stuff he refers to the
pirate says ladrones
which is Spanish for thieves or in this
case pirates quote the latrone is now
prepared to attack the town with
formidable force collecting in row boats
from the different vessels they sent a
messenger to the town
demanding a tribute of $10,000 annually
saying if these terms were not complied
with they would land destroy the town
and murder all the inhabitants which
they would certainly have done had the
town laid in a more advantageous
situation for their purpose but being
placed out of the reach of their shot
they allowed them to come to terms the
inhabitants agreed to pay $6,000 which
they were to collect by the time of our
return
down the river this finesse had the
desired effect for during our absence
they mounted a few guns on a hill which
commanded the passage and gave us in
lieu of the dollars a warm salute on our
return October the 1st the fleet weighed
in the night dropped by the tide up the
river and anchored very quietly before a
town surrounded by a thick wood early in
the morning the latrone is assembled in
row boats and landed then gave a shout
and rushed into the town sword in hand
the inhabitants fled to the adjacent
hills and numbers apparently superior to
the ladrones we may easily imagine to
ourselves the horror with which these
miserable people must be seized on being
obliged to leave their homes and
everything dear to them it was a most
melancholy sight to see women and tears
clasping their infants in their arms and
imploring mercy for them from these
brutal robbers the old and the sick who
were unable to fly or to make resistance
or either made prisoners are most
inhumanely butchered the boats continued
passing and repassing from the junks to
the shore in quick succession laden with
booty and the men be smeared with blood
two hundred and fifty women and several
children were made prisoners and sent on
board different vessels they were unable
to escape with the men owing to that
abominable practice of cramping their
feet several of them were not able to
move without assistance in fact they
made all be said to totter rather than
walk 20 of these poor women were sent on
board the vessel I was in they were
hauled on board by their hair and
treated in a most savage manner when the
chief came on board he questioned them
respecting the circumstances of their
friends and demanded ransoms accordingly
from six thousand to six hundred dollars
each he ordered them a berth on deck at
the after part of the vessel where they
had nothing to shelter them from the
weather which at this time was very
variable the day's excessively hot and
the nights cold with heavy rains the
town being plundered of everything
valuable it was set on fire and reduced
to ashes by the morning the fleet
remained here three
days negotiating for the ransom of the
prisoners and plundering the fish tanks
and Gardens during all this time the
Chinese never ventured from the hills
though they were frequently not more
than a hundred latrone is on shore at a
time and I am sure the people on the
hills exceeded ten times that number end
quote
from the east coast of China all the way
down to the Chong Joe straight and
Hainan these coastal dwelling people
face the same scenario every time they
were visited by pirates it doesn't seem
so terrifying hearing about it but I'm
sure if you were one of those running
for the hills or facing them down it was
another matter
with the amnesty it certainly didn't end
piracy but after 1810 the waters of the
Pearl River Delta quieted down and
people were able to live in peace to a
certain extent so that my friends is the
story of the Ching dynasty pirate queen
of the South China Seas jeonggi Sol and
her exploits together with the even more
famous pirate junk boats I together they
live the life during the first decade of
the 19th century when pirates reigned
supreme on land and on sea along the
entire South China coast particularly in
the waters were the Pearl River empties
out into the South China Sea okay that's
all I got thanks as always if you made
it this far this is Laszlo Montgomery
signing off from where else but Los
Angeles California begging and imploring
you to please consider joining me next
time for another exciting episode of the
China history podcast
you